Walk back we've had a nice set up here where we now have a profile icon and we can sign out or view
profile well or at least we can click on it.
But there's no view profile functionality.
We can sign out.
But when I click View Profile nothing happens now or we're going to try and do is when we click View
profile I think it would be nice if we had a model that pops up.
And this model allows us to change our name maybe change other fields in our profile and have it update
accordingly.
Maybe have our name updated right in here.
So let's do that.
Let's build a component that creates a model for us.
Luckily for us re-act came up with a new feature called create portal.
You see modals in general and apps are very very common.
And there has been an issue previously where we didn't have portals and it was a big problem of how
to set up models in a way that works really well with re-act.
Now with the introduction of portals this has become really really easy and they have a really really
nice documentation.
If you want to read more about it and really nice code snippets as well.
We're going to build our own model here that it contains the profile so that when we click on the profile
page or view profile we'll actually get this model.
So let's get to working.
The first thing I want to do is go back to the index dodgiest file.
I'm going to close some of these things just to keep things clean.
OK.
Now the way modals work is that we want to make sure that we have a nother re-act render that is outside
of the app and that's the cool thing about portals.
You can have a portal that is completely separate from the app and a number of re-act Dom render.
So think of it as another react on render that can be called let's say modal and by using the re-act
create portal we can actually transfer prop's in between them which is really cool.
It's kind of like well a portal.
And that's why it's called Portal.
So what we want to do is create another HMO element that we combined the modal component to.
Let's get to it.
The first thing I'm going to do is go back to my public folder where my index got a files and if I scroll
down here we see that we have divides of root.
That is where re-act is binding and rendering everything but down here I want to create a modal portal
and I can say div ID and we'll call it whatever we want let's say modal.
And again I like this demonstration because it shows how re-act works and how you can extend the functionality
of re-act.
So now we've created another thing that we can bind our mortal to and by using create portal we can
just make sure that whatever's in the app the props passed down to whatever's in the motorcade route
as well.
Let's say that and go back to our apt.
Now in app.
Yes let's say that we're going to import another component that we haven't created yet but we will soon.
And this is going to be the modal component and we're going to import it from our components folder
and it's just going to be called motile or let's create a modal folder.
And I get a bit of an error because well we haven't created the modal components yet.
All right.
Let's do that.
I want to go into components create a new folder we'll call it motile.
And within the modal folder I know we're getting a bit repetitive here but that's fine for now.
Modal dodgiest
And let's start building out this Modal component.